---
title: Glossary of terms
date: 2024-10-07
---
_Please note, the terms below have been used to shape work throughout this Alpha phase of delivery, however may be subject to change in the future._

**Short-term let:** As defined in Annex B of the Consultation on a registration scheme for short-term lets in England and taken from the Levelling Up and Regeneration Bill, (_‘(a) a dwelling, or part of a dwelling, which is provided by a person (“the host”) to another person (“the guest”)— (i) for use by the guest as accommodation other than the guest’s only or principal residence, (ii) in return for payment (whether or not by the guest), and (iii) in the course of a trade or business carried on by the host, and (b) any dwelling or premises, or part of a dwelling or premises, not falling within paragraph (a) which is specified for the purposes of this paragraph’_).

**Operator:** Any person who is the owner or tenant of a dwelling unit, or portion thereof, who offers or provides that dwelling unit, or portion thereof, for hosted short-term rental use.

**Hosts:** A person or company providing accommodation for short-term letting, including commercial landlords (note that the host may not be the owner or person who lives at the property).

**Management companies:** A company allowing hosts to outsource some or all of their functions in respect of services provided to guests during their stay.

**Dwelling:** A building or part of a building that is used or suitable for use as a single dwelling, or is in the process of being constructed or adapted for such use.

**Local Authority:** Has its usual meaning and, for the purposes of this consultation, they are the planning authorities and licensing authorities.

**Owner:** The person or persons or legal entity or entities holding interests of record to a property or any portion of the property.

**Platform (sometimes known as Online Travel Agencies or OTAs):** An online marketplace, advertising or brokering service, such as Airbnb, booking.com and others, allowing hosts to offer properties for short-term lets.

